Welcome back. In this lesson, we're diving
into our ideal seller profile, or
ISP.
Now that we know more about our sellers,
let's review what we have learned and how we
will respond to ensure we provide the best
support possible.
First, let's review who our seller is.
Our target is a residential property owner,
typically a distressed seller looking for an
alternative to the traditional real estate
market that often feels overwhelming.
We've learned these sellers can be individual
homeowners, small independent landlords
managing a few properties, or even executors
of an estate who have inherited a home they
need to handle quickly and efficiently.
We focus on individual homeowners or small
landlords with up to 10 properties.
We look all throughout the Midwest,
specifically in Kansas City, St.
Louis, Dayton, and Lake of the Ozarks.
These are the regions where our expertise
can make the most difference.
These owners need speed, certainty, and
convenience.
Often, their properties are difficult to sell
through traditional real estate channels,
and they need a faster, more reliable
solution than a standard listing.
What are they feeling?
Often, the property is damaged, neglected,
or requires significant repairs they simply
cannot afford to make right now, causing
them immense stress and uncertainty.
Financial pressure is a major factor.
This includes unpaid taxes, liens, mortgage
issues, or even the looming risk of a
foreclosure process that could potentially
upend their lives.
Life events like divorce, inheritance, or
sudden relocation can force a fast
decision. In these moments, our quick close
model provides the perfect solution for
their immediate needs.
Triggers are key for identification.
An inherited property that a seller doesn't
want to manage or renovate is a primary
reason they reach out to us for help.
Facing foreclosure, bankruptcy, or a tax
sale creates an urgent
need for the speed and certainty that the
BMH Group provides every single day
for our clients.
Properties with severe damage from fire,
floods, or long-term neglect are prime
candidates for our as-is purchasing model.
We also help landlords who are ready to exit
the market and stop managing tenants,
looking for a clean and simple way out of
their property burdens.
How do we qualify them?
Our hard filters are strict to ensure
success.
The seller must want to close within 30 days
and must be the legal owner or have
authority.
They should not be currently working with a
realtor and must be willing to trade a
portion of their equity for the incredible
speed and convenience we offer at the BMH
Group.
There are people we must avoid to protect
our time and theirs.
Disqualifiers include properties already
listed with a realtor or sellers who simply
lack the legal authority to sell.
Listen for key phrases like, I just want to
sell the house as is, I don't want to deal
with realtors, or I need to sell fast.
These are our signals for success.
Our messaging must resonate with their
needs.
Focus on the speed of closing and the
certainty of a cash offer without any of the
traditional delays or complications.
Always emphasize that we require no repairs,
no commissions, and
no cleanup. This simple, empathetic process
is what truly resonates with our
distressed property sellers.
During discovery, start by asking about the
property's condition and uncovering their
true motivation. We need to see exactly what
is driving the potential sale to help them
best.
Ask how soon they hope to close and if there
are specific repairs or legal issues.
This helps ensure they meet our strict timeline
and condition filters for a fast close.
Check the occupancy status and verify if you
are speaking with the legal owner.
This information is vital for the next steps
in our business process to ensure a smooth
transition.
Ask if they have considered a realtor or if
they are specifically looking for a faster
option. We want to be their simple,
effective, and trustworthy solution.
Finally, ask the powerful closing question.
If we could make the process simple and
close quickly, would that solve the situation
for you?
More on this later when we talk about
objection handling.
Mastering this profile and our response
strategy will help you focus your efforts.
Let's get to work and help our sellers move
forward toward a brighter future.
Up next, we'll talk about exactly what we
offer these sellers and why it works.